Release Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) (#3100)
grafana/agent: docs/developer/release/8-update-helm-charts.md

# Update Release Branch

> Our helm charts require some version updates as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our Helm charts require some version updates as well.
```

## Steps

1. Create a branch from `main` for [grafana/helm-charts](https://github.com/grafana/helm-charts).

> 2. Update the code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Update the code:
```

    1. Copy the content of the last CRDs into helm-charts.
        
        Copy the contents from agent repo `production/operator/crds/` to replace the contents of helm-charts repo `charts/agent-operator/crds`
        
    2. Update references of agent-operator app version in helm-charts pointing to release version.
    3. Bump up the helm chart version.
    

>     *NOTE: There is no need to update the README.md manually - running the 
> [helm-docs](https://github.com/norwoodj/helm-docs) utility in the `charts/agent-operator` directory 
> will update it automatically.*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    > **NOTE**: Do not update the README.md manually. Running the 
    > [helm-docs](https://github.com/norwoodj/helm-docs) utility in the `charts/agent-operator` 
    > directory will update it automatically.
```

> 3. Open a PR.
> 
>     - Example PR [here](https://github.com/grafana/helm-charts/pull/2233)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Open a PR, following the pattern in PR [#2233](https://github.com/grafana/helm-charts/pull/2233).
```

4. Create a branch from `main` for [grafana/agent](https://github.com/grafana/agent).

> 5. Update the code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Update the code:
```

>     1. Update `Chart.yaml` with the new helm version and app version
>     2. Update `CHANGELOG.md` with a new section for the helm version
>     3. Run `make generate-helm-docs generate-helm-tests` from the repo root

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1. Update `Chart.yaml` with the new helm version and app version.
    2. Update `CHANGELOG.md` with a new section for the helm version.
    3. Run `make generate-helm-docs generate-helm-tests` from the repo root.
```

> 6. Open a PR.
> 
>     - PRV example PR [here](https://github.com/grafana/agent/pull/3126)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Open a PR, following the pattern in PR [#3126](https://github.com/grafana/agent/3126).
```
